# Disable Fish Shell's GPG Completion
2023-05-02 Tue

Fish's gpg completion is bad, it previously led to my accidentally deletion of
my secret key[1]. And as I add more people's key, the completion starts to
become too long and is's really nonsense unless you can remenber everyone's key
and subkey properly. So I want to disable it (or switch to ksh for daily use?).

Fish uses its complete(1) to, apparently, do completion.
`complete gpg` will print out all the predefined gpg completion,
and the keyid completion is the `__fish_complete_gpg_user_id` function.
So let's hack it.

First `complete gpg > gpg.fish` to dump all the `complete ...` so I can edit it with vim.
Then I remove all the lines that don't have the __fish_complete_gpg_user_id by `:g!/__fish_complete_gpg_user_id/d`.
Then record a macro to add -e at every end of line,
but I found that all these command arguments itself such as --export won't show up in completion. So just remove the `-a (__fish_complete_gpg_user_id)`.
Then I mv the file to ~/.config/fish/config.fish, only to find the rest of completion that is not redefined by me are lost,
add a `__fish_complete_gpg gpg` line on top of those lines don't work either,
it will make all the completion come back and my re-definition becomes useless.

So, just put an empty `~/.config/fish/completions/gpg.fish` is ok...
I think those completions will make me less focused, not knowing what exactly I'm doing but just follow the completion.
One day my laptop's power was off so I worked on my Fedora server that only have a console. It made me focused.


=> https://dongdigua.github.io/pgp_canokey#obsolete [1]
